This code snippet demonstrates how to perform k-means clustering using scikit-learn in Python. Let's break down how it works:

Importing Libraries:

from sklearn.cluster import KMeans: This imports the KMeans class from scikit-learn, which is used to perform k-means clustering.
import numpy as np: This imports the NumPy library under the alias np. NumPy is used for numerical operations and is commonly used with scikit-learn for handling data arrays.
Given Data Points:

data: This variable holds the data points as a NumPy array. Each row represents a data point, and each column represents a feature. In this example, there are 8 data points with 2 features each.
Initializing KMeans:

kmeans = KMeans(n_clusters=2): This initializes a KMeans object with the parameter n_clusters set to 2, indicating that we want the algorithm to cluster the data into 2 clusters.
Fitting KMeans to Data:

kmeans.fit(data): This fits the k-means clustering algorithm to the given data. It assigns each data point to one of the k clusters based on the nearest centroid.
Getting Cluster Centers:

centroids = kmeans.cluster_centers_: This retrieves the coordinates of the centroids (cluster centers) of the clusters identified by the k-means algorithm.
Getting Labels:

labels = kmeans.labels_: This retrieves the cluster labels assigned to each data point by the k-means algorithm. These labels indicate which cluster each data point belongs to.
Printing Cluster Centers and Labels:

print("Cluster Centers:"): This prints the coordinates of the centroids.
print(centroids): This prints the coordinates of the centroids.
print("Labels:"): This prints the cluster labels assigned to each data point.
print(labels): This prints the cluster labels assigned to each data point.
How K-Means Algorithm Works:
K-means is an iterative clustering algorithm that aims to partition n observations into k clusters. The algorithm works as follows:

Initialization: Choose k initial cluster centers randomly.
Assignment: Assign each data point to the nearest cluster center (centroid), forming k clusters.
Update: Recalculate the centroid of each cluster based on the mean of all data points assigned to that cluster.
Repeat: Repeat steps 2 and 3 until convergence, i.e., until the centroids no longer change significantly or until a maximum number of iterations is reached.
The algorithm aims to minimize the within-cluster sum of squares (WCSS), which is the sum of the squared distances between each data point and its assigned centroid. K-means is sensitive to the initial choice of centroids and may converge to a local optimum. Therefore, multiple initializations with different random seeds are often used to mitigate this issue.





